
# Evaluating the Impact of a Policy in Education in Kazakhstan using Synthetic Difference-in-Differences
**Abstract:**  A mountain of evidence proves the importance of education and its significant positive effect on one's life. More specifically, it leads to higher income, longer life expectancy, and better health, and for women, in particular, it leads to lower birth rates and higher woman autonomy. One of the common ways to assess the quality of education in a country, albeit subject to debate, is through standardized examinations. In the international arena, Kazakhstani students score lower than OECD's average on international tests like PISA, and TIMSS, with an overall declining average score over time. To improve the quality of education in primary, basic, and general secondary education, the Ministry of Education of Kazakhstan has been implementing numerous educational programs in the past decade. However, there is little to no empirical evidence to support these programs and justify the allocated budget apart from success in the low-scale pilot studies. To address this challenge, I begin to investigate the current state of education in Kazakhstan by performing a policy evaluation of a shift to per capita funding in primary and secondary education levels, piloted in 2014 in partnership with UNESCO and launched in public schools in the capital Astana in 2018 and two other largest cities in the country, Almaty and Shymkent in the following year. Using the Difference-in-Differences estimator and the newly introduced Synthetic Difference-in-Difference estimator, I find no statistically significant effect of the shift to per capita funding on the share of students who score below the threshold on a national examination UNT held at the end of the 11th grade for high school graduates. While there certainly are limitations due to the data's availability, the study's short period, and the policy's possible lagged effects, this paper is a significant step in using empirical research to inform policymaking. 
